W-19704339-Updated with 11 tools for Oct 3 release-mk (#8)
mulesoft/docs-mulesoft-mcp-server: modules/ROOT/pages/reference-mcp-tools.adoc

= MuleSoft MCP Server Tools

These tools are available in MuleSoft MCP Server. Some tools are available only in the MuleSoft MCP Server that's included in Anypoint Code Builder IDE; those tool descriptions include "Available only in Anypoint Code Builder."

> == Agent Network Development

Author: 4 new tools follow

* `configure_agent_network_yaml`: Modifies an agent network project YAML file. The tool can replace placeholder YAML created from a template with values generated from user prompts and guided setup (mode='configure'). Or, the tool can make minor changes to a preconfigured agent network YAML file (mode='edit'). The LLM determines the appropriate mode value from user prompts and guided setup. Available only in Anypoint Code Builder.

* `create_agent_network_project`: Create and scaffold an agent network project with a name and location you specify. Available only in Anypoint Code Builder.

> * `deploy_agent_network`: Deploy an agent network instance to a runtime environment. Specify the project path, target environment, private space, and Managed Flex Gateway configuration for deployment. Prerequisites: Managed Flex Gateway, a business group, and the agent network project contains a valid `exchange.json` file. Available only in Anypoint Code Builder.

Reviewer: Private space should be replaced by `deployment target` since RTF is also supported

> * `deploy_agent_network`: Deploy an agent network instance to a runtime environment. Specify the project path, target environment, private space, and Managed Flex Gateway configuration for deployment. Prerequisites: Managed Flex Gateway, a business group, and the agent network project contains a valid `exchange.json` file. Available only in Anypoint Code Builder.

Author: ```suggestion
* `deploy_agent_network`: Deploy an agent network instance to a runtime environment. Specify the project path, target environment, deployment target, and Managed Flex Gateway configuration for deployment. Prerequisites: Managed Flex Gateway, a business group, and the agent network project contains a valid `exchange.json` file. Available only in Anypoint Code Builder.
```

> * `publish_agent_network_assets`: Publish agent network assets to Anypoint Exchange for reuse. Specify the location, asset version, and optional organization or business group. Prerequisite: The agent network project contains a valid `exchange.json` file. Available only in Anypoint Code Builder.

Reviewer: Shouldn't we put publish before deploy?

Author: They're in alphabetical order.

* `create_and_manage_metadata`: Define metadata for a flow component, attach metadata to Mule flow components, and update existing metadata. To define metadata, provide the Mule configuration file URI and sample data or schema. To apply metadata, specify existing metadata types. To update metadata, provide new schema or sample data. Available only in Anypoint Code Builder.

* `create_api_spec_project`: Create and scaffold an API spec or fragment project. You can specify the project name, location, and spec language (RAML, OAS, etc.).

* `create_MCP_server`: Create a MuleSoft MCP server. This tool handles requests for creating MCP servers using the Anypoint Connector for MCP (MCP Connector). Prerequisite: Install the MCP Connector.

* `create_mule_project`: Create an integration project.

* `generate_api_spec`: Generate, modify, or enhance an API spec using AI. Prerequisites: Log in to Anypoint Code Builder with your Anypoint Platform credentials. Make sure Einstein is enabled in Access Management.

* `generate_mule_flow`: Create a flow using AI.

> 

Author: 1 new tool follows

* `get_topics_agent_actions_metadata_instructions`: Get metadata and instructions for enabling topics and agent actions from an OpenAI spec. Topics are bundles of actions and sets of instructions agents use to complete tasks. Actions are tasks that the agent can do, and instructions help the agent understand how to use actions. Available only in Anypoint Code Builder.

> 

Author: 2 new tools follow

* `mock_api_spec`: Test an endpoint's functionality by making a request through a mocking service. Specify the endpoint, method, and payload sent to the endpoint as body content. If you don't specify body content, then the tool looks for examples in the endpoint information in the API spec. Available only in Anypoint Code Builder.

> * `open_api_spec`: Open an API specification project. Available only in Anypoint Code Builder.

Author: ```suggestion
* `open_project`: Open a project. For example, an API spec or an agent network project. Available only in Anypoint Code Builder.
```

* `run_local_mule_application`: Deploy and run your application locally.

> * `search_asset`: Search for an asset in an organization and Anypoint Exchange. Returns the first asset in the user's own organization that matches input criteria. If no assets are found in the user's organization, then the tool returns assets in Anypoint Exchange that exactly or partially match searchQuery.

Reviewer 2: The search asset now can return up to 10 assets in a single invocation. The default is 5.

> * `search_asset`: Search for an asset in an organization and Anypoint Exchange. Returns the first asset in the user's own organization that matches input criteria. If no assets are found in the user's organization, then the tool returns assets in Anypoint Exchange that exactly or partially match searchQuery.

Author: ```suggestion
* `search_asset`: Search for an asset in an organization and Anypoint Exchange. Returns up to 10 assets in the user's own organization that match input criteria. If no assets are found in the user's organization, then the tool returns assets in Anypoint Exchange that exactly or partially match searchQuery.
```

* `test_connection`: Test a connector configuration for a Mule project. For example, test connectivity for a HTTP listener connection. Available only in Anypoint Code Builder.

> 

Author: 1 new tool follows

== Application Management
* `create_and_manage_api_instances`: Create and configure API instances in Anypoint API Manager.

* `deploy_mule_application`: Deploy your application to CloudHub 2.0 or Runtime Fabric and run it. You can deploy from a local project or Anypoint Exchange asset. This tool supports security, high availability, and performance optimization deployment options. 

* `list_api_instances`: Get information for instances in an environment. You can also filter by an instance ID or label and include applied or available policies. Results are paginated using the page parameter. Prompt tip: To get information for all instances, revise results using the page parameter.

* `list_applications`: Get information about all applications in the environment you specify. You can also specify an optional deployment name. Results are sorted by last update date and time, in descending order.

* `update_mule_application`: Update a Mule application deployed to CloudHub 2.0 or Runtime Fabric. Update runtime version, configuration, and other application settings.

> == Governance

Author: 3 new tools follow
